Add documentation for MCP usage with Gordon (#21955)
docker/docs: content/manuals/desktop/features/gordon/mcp.md

---
title: MCP

> description: Best practices for using Docker Desktop with WSL 2

Reviewer: forgot this?

Author: Yup

keywords: ai, mcp, gordon
---

> > **tldr:** Gordon supports containerised MCP servers, at the root of your source tree, create a `gordon-mcp.yml` which is a standard compose file, and Gordon will enrich its response leveraging the servers described in that file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **tldr:** Gordon supports containerised MCP servers. Create a `gordon-mcp.yml` compose file at the root of your source tree, and Gordon will enrich its response leveraging the servers described in that file.
```

> 

## What is MCP?

Anthropic recently announced the [Model Context Protocol](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol) (MCP) specification, an open protocol that standardises how applications provide context to large language models. MCP functions as a client-server protocol, where the client (e.g., an application like Gordon) sends requests, and the server processes those requests to deliver the necessary context to the AI.

Gordon, along with other MCP clients like Claude Desktop, can interact with MCP servers running as containers. Docker has partnered with Anthropic to build container images for the [reference implementations](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/) of MCP servers, available on Docker Hub under [the mcp namespace](https://hub.docker.com/u/mcp).

## Simple MCP server usage with Gordon

> When you run the `docker ai` command in your terminal to ask a question, Gordon will look for a `gordon-mcp.yml` file for a list of MCP servers that should be used when in that context. The `gordon-mcp.yml` file is a Docker Compose file that configures MCP servers as Compose services for Gordon to access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run the `docker ai` command in your terminal to ask a question, Gordon will look for a `gordon-mcp.yml` file **in your working directory**  containing a list of MCP servers that should be used when in that context. The `gordon-mcp.yml` file is a Docker Compose file that configures MCP servers as Compose services for Gordon to access.
```

As a minimal example, let’s take a look at how you can use the [mcp-time server](https://hub.docker.com/r/mcp/time) to provide temporal capabilities to Gordon. (Source code and documentation is available [here](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/time)).

> 1. Create the `gordon-mcp.yml` file and add the time sever:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the `gordon-mcp.yml` file and add the time server:
```

    
    ```
    

As you can see, Gordon found the MCP time server and called its tool when needed.

## Advanced usage

Some MCP servers need access to your filesystem, or system environment variables. Docker Compose can help with this. Since `gordon-mcp.yml` is a Compose file you can add bind mounts using the regular Docker Compose syntax, which will make your filesystem resources available to the container:

```yaml
services:
  fs:
    image: mcp/filesystem
    command:
      - /rootfs
    volumes:
      - .:/rootfs
```

This `gordon-mcp.yml` file adds filesystem access capabilities to Gordon, since everything runs inside a container Gordon will only **have access to the directories you specify.

Gordon can handle any number of MCP servers, for example we can give Gordon access to the internet with the `mcp/fetch` server:

```yaml
services:
  fetch:
    image: mcp/fetch
  fs:
    image: mcp/filesystem
    command:
      - /rootfs
    volumes:
      - .:/rootfs
```

We can now combine these and ask things like

```bash
$ docker ai can you fetch rumpl.dev and write the summary to a file test.txt 

    • Calling fetch ✔️

>     • Calling write_file ✔️

Reviewer: gotcha, IMHO that type of detail can be left out of the examples

>     • Calling write_file ✔️

Author: You are right, changed it

2. **Writing a Window Manager in Rust - Part 2 (January 3, 2023)**: The second part of a series on creating a window manager in Rust. This installment focuses on enhancing the functionality to manage windows effectively.

3. **2022 in Review (December 29, 2022)**: A personal and professional recap of the year 2022. The author reflects on the highs and lows of the year, emphasizing professional achievements.

4. **Writing a Window Manager in Rust - Part 1 (December 28, 2022)**: The first part of the series on building a window manager in Rust. The author discusses setting up a Linux machine and the challenges of working with X11 and Rust.

5. **Add docker/docker to your dependencies (May 10, 2020)**: A guide for Go developers on how to use the Docker client library in their projects. The post includes a code snippet demonstrating the integration.

6. **First (October 11, 2019)**: The inaugural post on the blog, featuring a simple "Hello World" program in Go.%   

```

## What’s next?

Now that you’ve learned how to use MCP servers with Gordon, here are a few ways you can get started:

> - Experiment with MCP servers: Try integrating one or more of the tested MCP servers into your `gordon-mcp.yml` file and explore their capabilities.
> 1. Explore the MCP ecosystem: Check out the [reference implementations on GitHub](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/) or browse the [Docker Hub MCP namespace](https://hub.docker.com/u/mcp) for additional servers that might suit your needs.
> 2. Build your own MCP server: If none of the existing servers meet your needs, or you’re curious about exploring how they work in more detial, consider developing a custom MCP server. Use the [MCP specification](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol) as a guide.

Reviewer: nit: should we maybe consider a bit less repetition here? something like

 ```suggestion
- **Experiment**: Try integrating one or more of the tested MCP servers into your `gordon-mcp.yml` file and explore their capabilities.
1. **Explore the ecosystem**: Check out the [reference implementations on GitHub](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/) or browse the [Docker Hub MCP namespace](https://hub.docker.com/u/mcp) for additional servers that might suit your needs.
2. **Build your own**: If none of the existing servers meet your needs, or you’re curious about exploring how they work in more detial, consider developing a custom MCP server. Use the [MCP specification](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol) as a guide.
```

3. Share your feedback: If you discover new servers that work well with Gordon or encounter issues with existing ones, [share your findings to help improve the ecosystem.](https://docker.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_9tT3kdgXfAa6cWa)

With MCP support, Gordon offers powerful extensibility and flexibility to meet your specific use cases. Whether you’re adding temporal awareness, file management, or internet access, the possibilities are endless.

### List of known working MCP Servers

These are the MCP servers that we have tested successfully with Gordon

- `mcp/time`
- `mcp/fetch`
- `mcp/filesystem`
- `mcp/postgres`
- `mcp/git`
- `mcp/sqlite`
- `mcp/github`

### List of MCP servers we are not sure about

> These are the MCP servers that we have not tested but should work if given the appropriate tokens

Reviewer: maybe?
```suggestion
These are the MCP servers that we have not tested but should work if given the appropriate API tokens
```

- `mcp/brave-search`
- `mcp/gdrive`
- `mcp/slack`
- `mcp/google-maps`
- `mcp/gitlab`
- `mcp/everything`
- `mcp/aws-kb-retrieval-server`
- `mcp/sentry`

### List of MCP servers that don’t work with Gordon

> These are the MCP servers that we know don’t work and why

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are the MCP servers that are currently unsupported
```

- `mcp/sequentialthinking` - The tool description is too long

> - `mcp/puppeteer` - Puppeteer send back images and Gordon doesn’t know how to handle them, it only handles text responses from tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `mcp/puppeteer` - Puppeteer sends back images and Gordon doesn’t know how to handle them, it only handles text responses from tools
```

> - `mcp/everart` - Everart send back images and Gordon doesn’t know how to handle them, it only handles text responses from tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `mcp/everart` - Everart sends back images and Gordon doesn’t know how to handle them, it only handles text responses from tools
```
